---
title: Phone and computer addiction
intro: My phone and computer have taken over my life. Slowly but surely these
  devices have taken more and more of my attention and time. More than I'm
  probably comfortable admitting.
date: 2022-01-18T09:32:50.605Z
---
My phone and computer have taken over my life. Slowly but surely these devices have taken over more and more of my attention and time. More than I'm probably comfortable admitting.

It's no secret that these devices are designed to hook people up and keep their attention engaged, but it's just the realization of how much of my life has been taken over by them. And how I psychologically shield myself from the fact that everyone else is using phones similarly so it must be ok. But deep down, I know it's not ok. Deep down, I feel we'll look back at this period, and we'll all be amazed at how much of our life force was consumed by this little game like machines. 

Of course, I understand that it's not all bad, to the contrary they provide a whole range of benefits as well as the drawback of their addictive quality. A little like those inflection points in history when humans discover a new tool that changes dramatically how humanity operates. But at no other time, did the discovered tools, say the knife or the wheel, had the ability to demand our attention and to lure us into using them!

So what's the solution? It's tricky because it's akin to having an addiction to food. You can't live without food and so you need to learn about how to have a positive and healthy relationship with it. Phones and computers are similar, they've become so ubiquitous that you need them in order to participate in social and working circles.

So I guess a good way forward would be to make up some rules on what's healthy and unhealthy when it comes to technology usr and try to stick to them. I'll be pondering those in the next few days so stay tuned but in the meantime do you have any ideas/tricks that you use to keep your technology use under control? Message me on twitter @energybubble.net