---
title: Every day anxiety
intro: I find myself totally engulfed by a low level anxiety. An anxiety that is
  just like a tension that runs on the background of my mundane daily life.
date: 2022-03-21T10:51:17.067Z
---
Is the parcel arriving today? Will the car be back from the mechanic on time? Will someone call me when they said they would? I feel a constant need to have everything under control and it's not only uncomfortable but it also takes up a lot of unnecessary energy. 

I wonder how I got here, as I never used to be like this in my twenties and thirties. It kind of creeps up on you. The societal expectations of what you should have and be by the time you reach your forties is well and truly branded into our brains, and when it doesn't match, it hurts.

Is it because we've become vulnerable to the whims of the ego? I find the ego wants things done just exactly like it wants them done. No more or and no less. And there's not telling it otherwise. So am I jusy a servant to the ego. The ego wants things a certain way and so I need to go and use my life force in order to get it.

This is no way to live. I'm not my ego. I'm the one behind my ego, the one that when is running the show is quite happy with whatever is going on. Just an easy-going kind of being that is happy and excited to see what happens next, rather than being hell-bent on having this like it thinks it's best.

Meditation and mindfulness are the only things that helps me feel better. The only things that helps me let go of the need for controlling everything and to touch base with the deeper part of me that is much more child and is happy with whatever happens. This reminds me that I've fallen of the bandwagon of my daily practice and that is the reason why I feel so attach to my egos desired. Going to do some meditation now, so I can feel better. Speak soon!