---
title: Can we make sense of the world with something else than our mind?
intro: We're taught to live in our minds. We're told that the most important
  tool we have at our disposal when it comes to handling ourselves in the world
  is the mind.  But is that true?
date: 2022-01-12T12:02:10.341Z
---
>Instead of judging what is, he accepts and so enters into conscious alignment with the higher order. He knows that often it's impossible for the mind to understand what place or purpose a seemingly random event has in the tapestry of the whole

We're taught to live in our minds. We're told that the most important tool we have at our disposal when it comes to handling ourselves in the world is the mind. And although the mind is a very useful problem solving machine, perhaps there are other parts of our being that help us navigate this weird and wonderful world.

And so as the quote alluded there's a part of our experience of the world that we can't work out solely with our minds. The mind is good at taking a minute bit of our reality, dissecting it, evaluating its pros and cons and then coming out with an answer to what the best way forward is.

But the mind is not good at understanding that the minute bit that is in front of us is embedded within an infinite number of other minute bits and its infinite interactions and permutations. A little bit like when we try to comprehend the size of the universe and our place within it, the mind just can't quite grasp it.

And so, that takes us to the question of which other parts of ourselves would be useful to try and engage with to truly understand what is going on around us. That's what meditation and other spiritual practices try to achieve. By actively disengaging from our over reliance on thought.

There's a whole ocean of wisdom and understanding that lies beneath the surface of the mind and its continual chatter. Having a daily meditation and mindfulness practice helps us to connect with the past of ourselves that can understand the bigger context in which we exist.