---
title: Who am I?
intro: The joyous Being that lives underneath the personality, the one you could feel strongly as a child but now have to peel the layers off to find.
date: 2021-11-03
---

I'm the joyous Being that lives underneath the personality. I am the root. The one you could feel very strongly when you were a child and that now you have to peel the layers off to find.

I am the awareness. The light behind your eyes. The awareness that when you were a baby was able to shine through. The awareness that now as an adult, after you've been taught by the world who you should be, you've forgotten about. Come and find me.

I am the one, that is always there when you sit in a quiet spot by yourself and let go of the chatter. I am the one that can stop time and can help you see the beauty around you. I am not the one that thinks. I'm underneath thinking. 

I am the one that I've listened to, will take you to where you need to be on a straight line, no detours needed. I am the one that when listened to will whisper the best advice. And if you follow that advice, adventure awaits. Come and find me.

I am you, and you are everyone you meet. We're all the same. Born of the same. Get quiet and listen and the whole world will sing to you. You will see things that you've never seen and feel things you've never felt, but only if you get quiet and listen.

Let go of everything else, it's all smoke and mirrors. All I need is a regular quiet practice and I'll reveal myself to you. At the root, that's where you'll find me. I am the awareness. Come and find me.

